projects/project2/project_road_segmentation/README.md, before:

# Project Road Segmentation
## Overview
The aim of this project is to classify patches of satellite images into roads or background. To accomplish this task we propose 3 neural network architectures implemented using the framework [Tensorflow 2.0](https://www.tensorflow.org). Specifically we are using the high-level API Keras.   For a detailed explanation of the architectures used please review the file Machine_learning_AAE_project2_report.pdf.

This repository contains all the files required to train the architectures, generate their history plots and run the best model with its optimum weights.
## Team submission ID on AICrowd

Andres Montero: 31018    

## Contents
Depending on the model to run, the data should be separated in training and validating folders
with the same structure.

```
|── data                                            <- Empty folder, copy the dataset here
├── Report
│   ├── Machine_learning_AAE_project2_report.pdf    <- Report in .pdf format
├── models
    └── cnn.py                                      <- CNN architecture file (best)
    └── resnet.py                                   <- RESNET_UNET architecture file
    └── unet.py                                     <- UNET architecture file
├── saved_models									<- Folder where models are saved during training
├── Project2_CNN.ipynb                              <- Notebook to run the CNN architecture (best model)         
├── best_cnn_colab.h5                               <- weights of the best model generated in colab
├── Project2_UNET.ipynb                             <- Notebook to run the UNET architecture
├── Project2_RESNET_UNET.ipynb                      <- Notebook to run the RESNET_UNET architecture
├── Project2_segment_aerial_images.ipynb            <- Notebook to run the baseline provided
├── Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb                       <- Notebook to run the best model in Colab
├── run.py                                          <- File to run the best model predictions
├── utils.py                                        <- File containing utility functions
├── README.md                                       <- Readme file
```

## Setup
1. Install the last version of anaconda according to you OS
* Linux: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/linux/   
* Windows: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/windows/
* MacOS: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/mac-os/
2. Open an anaconda shell (Windows) or terminal (Linux/MacOS) and run the following command:
    `conda create --name road_seg anaconda python==3.7.5`.
3. In the conda environment recently created, run the following commands:
- `pip install opencv-python`
- `pip install tensorflow==2.0.0`

4. If you have access to a CUDA-enabled GPU you can install it following the instructions provided in this link [TensorFlow's installation instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/gpu)

## Running models

1. Download the zip file AAE_project2.zip of the project
2. Got to the path containing the zip file and uncompress it
3. Download the dataset
[AICrowd_page](https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/epfl-ml-road-segmentation-2019/dataset_files). And uncompress the training and test images in the data folder of the project
4. Decompress the dataset in the folder data and make sure that you have the
following folder structure:
`|── data                               
    └── test_set_images
        └── test_1
        └── test_2
        ...
        └── test_50
    └── training
        └── images
        └── groundtruth
`
5. (Important note) For the models UNET and RESNET_UNET you need to create a validating dataset, hence you have to take some images (we used 80-20), and groundtruths from the training set, create a folder named validating and insert them there. For the CCN model just keep the previous folder structure with the entire set of images.
    `|── data                               
   └── test_set_images
       └── test_1
       └── test_2
       ...
     └── test_50
   └── training
       └── images
       └── groundtruth
   └── validating
       └── images
       └── groundtruth
    `
6. Run any of the notebooks
- Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb
- Project2_CNN.ipynb
- Project2_UNET.ipynb
- Project2_RESNET_UNET.ipynb
- Project2_segment_aerial_images.ipynb

To obtain the weights used for the final submission please run the Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb without changing the parameters following the guide in section "Alternative Setup Google Colab". 

## Run the predictions
**Note: to run the predictions you  must keep the previous folder structure**

1. Move to the root of the project folder.
2. Run the following command:
`python run.py`
3. After the program has run completely, the submission file best_cnn.csv will be generated.
4. By default the program will load the best weights trained in colab. If you want to train locally (you need to change the flag "FLAG_LOAD_WEIGTHS" of the run.py to False )

## Alternative Setup on Google Colab
1. Upload the uncompressed zip AAE_project2 to a folder in Google Drive
2. Add two cells at the start of your notebook:
- Execute the cell containing:
`from google.colab import drive
drive.mount('/content/drive')`
- To change the path to the folder containing the uncompressed data:
``cd <put_your_path_to_the_project_here>``

3. Open the notebook Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb  in cola

4. Run the cells and the submission file "best_cnn_colab.csv" will be generated in the drive folder.


## Authors
- Andres Ivan Montero Cassab
- Erick Antero Maraz Zuñiga
- Adrian Gabriel Villarroel Navia

Commit message:

Add comment on tensorflow baseline README.md

projects/project2/project_road_segmentation/README.md, after:

# Project Road Segmentation
## Overview
The aim of this project is to classify patches of satellite images into roads or background. To accomplish this task we propose 3 neural network architectures implemented using the framework [Tensorflow 2.0](https://www.tensorflow.org). Specifically we are using the high-level API Keras.   For a detailed explanation of the architectures used please review the file Machine_learning_AAE_project2_report.pdf.

This repository contains all the files required to train the architectures, generate their history plots and run the best model with its optimum weights.
## Team submission ID on AICrowd

Andres Montero: 31018    

## Contents
Depending on the model to run, the data should be separated in training and validating folders
with the same structure.

```
|── data                                            <- Empty folder, copy the dataset here
├── Report
│   ├── Machine_learning_AAE_project2_report.pdf    <- Report in .pdf format
├── models
    └── cnn.py                                      <- CNN architecture file (best)
    └── resnet.py                                   <- RESNET_UNET architecture file
    └── unet.py                                     <- UNET architecture file
├── saved_models									<- Folder where models are saved during training
├── Project2_CNN.ipynb                              <- Notebook to run the CNN architecture (best model)         
├── best_cnn_colab.h5                               <- weights of the best model generated in colab
├── Project2_UNET.ipynb                             <- Notebook to run the UNET architecture
├── Project2_RESNET_UNET.ipynb                      <- Notebook to run the RESNET_UNET architecture
├── tf_aerial_images.py                             <- .py file to run the baseline
├── Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb                        <- Notebook to run the best model in Colab
├── run.py                                          <- File to run the best model predictions
├── utils.py                                        <- File containing utility functions
├── README.md                                       <- Readme file
```

## Setup
1. Install the last version of anaconda according to you OS
* Linux: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/linux/   
* Windows: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/windows/
* MacOS: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/mac-os/
2. Open an anaconda shell (Windows) or terminal (Linux/MacOS) and run the following command:
    `conda create --name road_seg anaconda python==3.7.5`.
3. In the conda environment recently created, run the following commands:
- `pip install opencv-python`
- `pip install tensorflow==2.0.0`

4. If you have access to a CUDA-enabled GPU you can install it following the instructions provided in this link [TensorFlow's installation instructions](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/gpu)

## Running models

1. Download the zip file AAE_project2.zip of the project
2. Got to the path containing the zip file and uncompress it
3. Download the dataset
[AICrowd_page](https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/epfl-ml-road-segmentation-2019/dataset_files). And uncompress the training and test images in the data folder of the project
4. Decompress the dataset in the folder data and make sure that you have the
following folder structure:
`|── data                               
    └── test_set_images
        └── test_1
        └── test_2
        ...
        └── test_50
    └── training
        └── images
        └── groundtruth
`
5. (Important note) For the models UNET and RESNET_UNET you need to create a validating dataset, hence you have to take some images (we used 80-20), and groundtruths from the training set, create a folder named validating and insert them there. For the CCN model just keep the previous folder structure with the entire set of images.
    `|── data                               
   └── test_set_images
       └── test_1
       └── test_2
       ...
     └── test_50
   └── training
       └── images
       └── groundtruth
   └── validating
       └── images
       └── groundtruth
    `
7. Run any of the notebooks
- Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb
- Project2_CNN.ipynb
- Project2_UNET.ipynb
- Project2_RESNET_UNET.ipynb
Or run the baseline:
- tf_aerial_images.py
Note: The baseline was tested with TensorFlow 1.13.2, which is not completely up to date.
To 'downgrade': pip install --upgrade tensorflow==1.13.2

To obtain the weights used for the final submission please run the Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb without changing the parameters following the guide in section "Alternative Setup Google Colab".

## Run the predictions
**Note: to run the predictions you  must keep the previous folder structure**

1. Move to the root of the project folder.
2. Run the following command:
`python run.py`
3. After the program has run completely, the submission file best_cnn.csv will be generated.
4. By default the program will load the best weights trained in colab. If you want to train locally (you need to change the flag "FLAG_LOAD_WEIGTHS" of the run.py to False )

## Alternative Setup on Google Colab
1. Upload the uncompressed zip AAE_project2 to a folder in Google Drive
2. Add two cells at the start of your notebook:
- Execute the cell containing:
`from google.colab import drive
drive.mount('/content/drive')`
- To change the path to the folder containing the uncompressed data:
``cd <put_your_path_to_the_project_here>``

3. Open the notebook Project2_CNN_colab.ipynb  in cola

4. Run the cells and the submission file "best_cnn_colab.csv" will be generated in the drive folder.


## Authors
- Andres Ivan Montero Cassab
- Erick Antero Maraz Zuñiga
- Adrian Gabriel Villarroel Navia
